# Energy Web

* [Self-Sovereign Identity for the Enterprise with Switchboard](https://medium.com/energy-web-insights/unlocking-the-potential-of-self-sovereign-identity-for-enterprise-with-energy-web-switchboard-ab41499003a0) Energy Web
  > This release includes major updates to the front-end Switchboard web application as well as the back-end libraries and components, giving companies access to the full suite features offered by legacy identity access management solutions in a decentralized architecture.
* [Energy Web Quarterly Update](https://medium.com/energy-web-insights/energy-web-quarterly-update-855feb5878b6)
  > Switchboards, our enterprise-grade self sovereign identity and access management solution built on the W3C administered decentralized identifier standard. Examples include [Stedin’s identity and access management solution](https://medium.com/energy-web-insights/stedin-the-dutch-distribution-system-operator-announces-partnership-with-energy-web-to-explore-cd278623809b), [CAISO flex alert](https://medium.com/energy-web-insights/california-grid-operator-launches-new-demand-flexibility-platform-enhancements-to-flex-alert-system-e01ae8030da0), [and our work with Vodafone](https://medium.com/energy-web-insights/energy-web-announces-development-of-renewable-energy-ev-charging-with-vodafone-and-mastercard-94e1ac4c4aa1), [Kigen, and KORE wireless](https://medium.com/energy-web-insights/kore-collaborates-with-kigen-and-energy-web-to-provide-integrated-esim-based-trusted-identity-b22854958851).
* [How large is the market for Energy Web DIDs?](https://medium.com/energy-web-insights/how-large-is-the-market-for-energy-web-dids-bda42a2848cc) EnergyWeb
  > At Energy Web, we understand that in order to have any meaningful adoption of enterprise applications using decentral technology, a DID-based tech stack has to be offered in a convenient and reliable way as well. This is why we’re developing the Decentralized Service Level Assurance (DLSA) solution.
* [Stedin, the Dutch Distribution System Operator, Announces Partnership with Energy Web to Explore the Future of Asset Management](https://medium.com/energy-web-insights/stedin-the-dutch-distribution-system-operator-announces-partnership-with-energy-web-to-explore-cd278623809b)
  > Energy Web, the non-profit building operating systems for energy grids, and Stedin, the Dutch distribution system operator (DSO), announced a partnership today to deploy a future-proofed solution for managing energy assets. This would include DSO-native devices, such as smart meters and distribution automation devices, and consumer/prosumer devices commonly referred to as distributed energy resources (DERs).
* [An Energy Data Space to boost the European data economy](https://medium.com/energy-web-insights/an-energy-data-space-to-boost-the-european-data-economy-7edf6fc1f6f6) EnergyWeb

“There will be no Green Energy Transition without full digitalization. There will be no EU data strategy without data sharing. Data Spaces can answer to both challenges at once, being Energy one of the flagship use cases.” Javier Valiño — Atos
* [Energy Web and Volkswagen deliver 24/7 renewable energy charging solution for electric vehicles](https://medium.com/energy-web-insights/energy-web-and-volkswagen-deliver-24-7-renewable-energy-charging-solution-for-electric-vehicles-734132c5a737): Solution enables EV owners to charge from specific power plants and match their charging session with close to real-time production from renewables

The purpose of this project has been to showcase that advanced EV charging solutions can empower EV owners to set their own preferences for when and where they get their energy. For instance, they can select to charge using wind and solar resources, from energy assets within a 10 km radius, and target 80% charge by 5 pm — all from within a user-friendly application, with an accurate breakdown of their session’s carbon footprint

* [Unlocking the Potential of Self-Sovereign Identity for Enterprise with Energy Web Switchboard](https://medium.com/energy-web-insights/unlocking-the-potential-of-self-sovereign-identity-for-enterprise-with-energy-web-switchboard-ab41499003a0) EnergyWeb

At Energy Web we believe self-sovereign identity (SSI) will become a fundamental pillar of the energy transition, enhancing interoperability and strengthening security for billions of assets, organizations, and customers.
* [Digging Deeper into Self-sovereign Identity and Access Management](https://medium.com/energy-web-insights/digging-deeper-into-self-sovereign-identity-and-access-management-e6eefbac631e)  Energy Web Foundation
  > What we’d like to highlight in this simplified process is the fact that it is the user who stores the claim and anchors it on chain. Also, because it is a private claim, the contents are provable but not disclosed. The user can therefore prove that they have been granted a certain privilege, but unless they elect to disclose this information, it is impossible for a third party to find out.
* [DIDs are not enough - we need an Authoriziation standard too](https://medium.com/energy-web-insights/api-access-security-for-dapps-cfcfa928623c) Energy Web

If you are a developer and want to write a DApp [...] you probably are using API-Keys in your front-end. If this is the case, then you should consider the security risk the publication of the API-Key in your front end represents and ask yourself if it would make sense to switch to a user authentication scheme.
* [How staking EWT increases cybersecurity for energy grids and enterprises](https://medium.com/energy-web-insights/how-staking-ewt-increases-cybersecurity-for-energy-grids-and-enterprises-f26bb308bb1a) EnergyWeb
  > this mechanism is to use public blockchains, paired with cryptocurrency, for staking and distributing awards to nodes performing the verification work. By doing so, the execution of the verification mechanism is completely automated, immediate, and impartial.

