---
published: false
---

# Standards Bodies

* [Manifesto: Rules for standards-makers](http://scripting.com/2017/05/09/rulesForStandardsmakers.html)
  > I've used all kinds of formats and protocols in a long career as a software developer, even created a few. My new manifesto summarizes what I've learned about what works and what doesn't.

* [Decentralized Profiles group Nov 25th call](https://blog.ceramic.network/dprofiles-call-3/)
Every 6 weeks the at Ceramic meets
* [Ethereum OASIS Receives $100K for Baseline Protocol Projects](https://www.oasis-open.org/2021/03/10/ethereum-oasis-receives-100k-incentive-funding-for-baseline-protocol-projects/)

Today, the 
[Baseline Protocol](https://www.baseline-protocol.org/), part of the Ethereum OASIS Open Project and in partnership with 
[Open Source Collective](http://opencollective.com/opensource), announced that it has received a grant of $100,000 from the 
[Ethereum Foundation](https://ethereum.foundation/) to be used for the purpose of encouraging and accelerating baseline protocol R&D and enablement efforts. This comes on the first anniversary of the community’s formation.
* [DIF SDS/CS WG: CS Refactoring Proposal 0.2](https://hyperonomy.com/2021/03/28/cs-refactoring-proposal/) Hyperonomy

1. Latest Version of the Proposal (0.2 – March 24, 2021)
2. Agent-Hub-EDV Architecture Reference Model (AHE-ARM) 0.1
3. Transcription of Selected Parts of the DIF SDS/CS March 11, 2021 Zoom Call
4. OSI Stack Proposal for Confidential Storage Specification

Based on the March 11 Zoom discussion where we worked hard to discern the differences between Agents, Hubs, and EDVs (and I believe were largely successful IMO), I’ve like to propose to the SDS/CS WG that we refactor the current Confidential Storage specification into 3 separable parts/specifications.  I also present a high-level roadmap (simple ordering) for how the WG might proceed if this refactoring is accepted (or at least, if the first part/first new specification is accepted).

* [Working Group for Privacy Enhancing Mobile Credentials](https://kantarainitiative.org/introducing-kantaras-working-group-for-privacy-enhancing-mobile-credentials/) Kantara Initiative

Clearly the use of a driver’s license goes well beyond proving eligibility to drive a vehicle. It has become the de-facto standard for proving that you are who you say you are – and are entitled to the product or service requested. An increasing number of states are adopting mobile ID systems to recognise and verify mobile credentials including driver’s licenses (mDL).
* [Digital Identity in response to COVID-19: DGX Digital Identity Working Group](https://www.tech.gov.sg/files/media/corporate-publications/FY2021/dgx_2021_digital_identity_in_response_to_covid-19.pdf)
* [Digital Identity Attestation Roundup - Open Source Security Foundation](https://openssf.org/blog/2021/01/27/digital-identity-attestation-roundup/%23)

We kicked off the first Digital Identity Attestation Working Group meeting under the OpenSSF in August, 2020. The objective of this working group is to enable open source maintainers, contributors and end-users to understand and make decisions on the provenance or origin of the code they maintain, produce and use.

* [Digital Identity WG (September 30, 2020)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?t%3D648%26v%3D6Ym5bXRuzZ8%26feature%3Dyoutu.be)
* [UPCOMING COMMUNITY CALL & NEW RESEARCH: BIOMETRICS IN THE HUMANITARIAN SECTOR](https://www.theengineroom.org/upcoming-community-call-new-research-biometrics-in-the-humanitarian-sector/) the Engine Room

In 2018 we worked with Oxfam to publish a [landmark report](https://www.theengineroom.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/Engine-Room-Oxfam-Biometrics-Review.pdf) on the use of biometric data – fingerprints, iris scans, voiceprints and so on – in the humanitarian sector. Our report looked at how these types of data were being collected and used, and raised critical questions around potential risks and harms.

* [...]

If you’re a humanitarian practitioner or just interested in biometrics and responsible data, please join our upcoming Community Call, where we’ll be introducing the project and hearing from practitioners on the theme. [Register for the call](https://us02web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZEtf-mhrT4iH9JtwHCe-5UG25QeQZnhRigd)

* [Announcing the 2022 OpenID Foundation Kim Cameron Scholarship](https://openid.net/2022/04/08/announcing-the-2022-openid-foundation-kim-cameron-scholarship/) OpenID

Scholarship recipients will be studying, researching, interning or working in a field relevant to one or more [OpenID Foundation working groups](https://openid.net/wg/) and consistent with Foundation’s Mission. The scholarship recipients will also be invited to participate in Foundation breakout meetings at the European Identity Conference and Identiverse which will provide exposure to both the Foundation’s business as well as leading technologists.

New IETF protocol

* [Secure Credential Transfer](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-secure-credential-transfer-03.html) Vinokurov, Byington, Lerch, Pelletier, Sha

This document describes a mechanism to transfer digital credentials securely between two devices. Secure credentials may represent a digital key to a hotel room, a digital key to a door lock in a house or a digital key to a car. Devices that share credentials may belong to the same or two different platforms (e.g. iOS and Android). Secure transfer may include one or more write and read operations. Credential transfer needs to be performed securely due to the sensitive nature of the information.

Upcoming Work Group Calls

A lot of activity in this community happens every week in work groups. We are going to make more of an effort to highlight calls that may be of interest to folks and to do more coverage and linking to calls from the previous week that are interesting to a wider audience.

* [The W3C’s Credentials Community is hosting a session on NFTs and Identity](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Apr/0049.html). 4/12 [9am PST](https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/weekly)

There has been an explosion of interest in using NFT for identity, along with exploring how they could work with or support DIDs and VCs. Simone Ravaioli, Taylor Kendal and Heather Vescent have invited Evin Mcmullen of [Disco.xyz](https://www.disco.xyz/), Elina Cadouri of [Dock](https://www.dock.io/), Stepan Gershuni of [Affinidi](https://www.affinidi.com/) / [DeepSkills](https://www.deepskills.io/), and Dominik Beron of [Walt.id](https://walt.id/) to share their perspective on NFT identity and where it may overlap with DIDs and VCs

((Evin seems really cool -kaliya))

Past Working Group Calls of Interest

A couple weeks ago Amber Case came and spoke about “[Calm Technology](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v%3DNgyfa4_NuPI)” at the TOIP Human Experience Working Group ([HXWG](https://wiki.trustoverip.org/display/HOME/Human%2BExperience%2BWorking%2BGroup)

Michale Herman [is excited](https://twitter.com/mwherman2000/status/1511550968617263114) about the new  [#VCA](https://twitter.com/hashtag/VCA) (Verifiable Credential Authorization) using the new [#VCTPS](https://twitter.com/hashtag/VCTPS) (Secure Verifiable Credential Transport Protocol) over [#DIDCOMM](https://twitter.com/hashtag/DIDCOMM)


* [What Does Affinidi Do as a Member of the Decentralized Identity Foundation (DIF)?](https://academy.affinidi.com/what-does-affinidi-do-as-a-member-of-the-decentralized-identity-foundation-dif-d9d5146af14) Affinidi

In particular, Affinidi has been at the forefront in building many components such as the [Affinidi Wallet](https://academy.affinidi.com/what-is-affinidis-digital-wallet-1c2a52b4d13f), Schema Manager, [Consent Manager](https://build.affinidi.com/), and more that have enhanced the adoption of decentralised identity among communities and individuals.


* [Security Event Tokens, Subject Identifiers, and SSE/CAEP/RISC Java implementation](https://iiw.idcommons.net/13A/_Security_Event_Tokens,_Subject_Identifiers,_and_SSE/CAEP/RISC_Java_implementation) by Matt Domsch

Matt presented an overview of the OpenID Foundation Shared Signals and Events Working Group, and his implementation of the object model in an open source Java library at [https://github.com/sailpoint-oss/openid-sse-model/](https://github.com/sailpoint-oss/openid-sse-model/)

* [Drilling down: Co-development](https://medium.com/decentralized-identity/drilling-down-co-development-in-the-open-765a86ab153f) DIF
  > - What “standardization” means to DIF and what DIF means to standardization.
- A newbie-friendly survey of how DIF relates to nearby organizations with overlapping or related foci.
- What “co-development” and “coöpetition” really mean, concretely

* [OASIS Open Establishes European Foundation to Advance Open Collaboration Opportunities](https://www.oasis-open.org/2021/01/20/oasis-open-establishes-european-foundation-to-advance-open-collaboration-opportunities/)
  > “The OASIS Open Europe Foundation gives us a unique opportunity to work with the European Union and EU Member States to advance open source and standards projects,”
* [Shared Signal and Events (SSE) working group](https://openid.net/wg/sse/) in the OpenID Foundation.

## Interop

They are actually coming to the [Interoperability Working Group](https://www.notion.so/Interoperability-WG-a42995c37e2a4511a10aea96cdbccc38) this coming week to share results. Here is what they had to say about SSI:

A Self- Sovereign Identity can unlock the full potential of the digital global economy. The identity of people, organizations and things is relevant to any transaction, while protecting Personal Identifiable Information (PII) is of increasing importance.

* [Open call to kickoff the upcoming Wallet Security WG at DIF](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Feb/0114.html) March 1st
  > Bastian, Paul writes:
  >   I will present motivation, goals and a first roadmap.
  > Very short summary:
  > - standardized wallet security is necessary for sensitive credentials like id-cards, payment credentials or more 
  > - create a specification and interface to communicate about wallet capabilities, security, regulation-conformance and other points of security-relevant interoperability
  > - define mechanism to enable wallet security assertions, certification and ways to prove them
  > - define specifications about wallet user authentication, ways how to ensure them and how to communicate them to issuers/verifiers

* [Calander Invite](https://forms.gle/t6wDnipR2md3WWKj7) • [Wallet Security WG Charter](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18H2hVjHZEBjbnzod8tLogJIEzySdecbk9d-QBJaqHP0/edit) • [Wallet Security Mailing list](https://lists.identity.foundation/g/wallet-security)

* [VC-Educational Task Force](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-04-18-vc-education/) VCEdu Mailing List

Dmitri Zagidulin: “with invisi edu here we've got two pressing problems [...] verifiable credentials that are going to be displayed in wallets but we also would like to bind them to more traditional display artifacts such as PDFs and that's what James is going to be talking about and the second one is [..] we want issuers to [...] at least advise to wallets, verifiers, and other software how to display the credential”
* [Chain Agnostic Standards Alliance](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CASA)

The Chain Agnostic Standards Alliance (CASA) is a collection of working groups dedicated blockchain protocol-agnostic standards. CASA also publishes [Chain Agnostic Improvement Proposals](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs) which describe standards created by the different working groups.

* [Secure Data Storage](https://identity.foundation/working-groups/secure-data-storage.html)

- [User Controlled Authorization Network](https://github.com/ucan-wg/spec/) model and how it contrasts with decentralized approaches
- APAC/ASEAN Community Call now a colloaborative initative between DIF and ToIP, launched Thursday 26th May 2022, kicking off with an IIW34 recap. ([Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/5FW6hVoZc1kVJiFL4NNCRZg7625h-1UsC1xCY8Mb7cLXQpO2yDW566woLoA5IZA.MUVPrrNr_k3PXxDl)
* [DIF Steering Committee Election Results 2022](https://blog.identity.foundation/sc-election-2022-results/)

SC Election results: DIF welcomes new SC members Sam Curren, Daniel Buchner, Karyl Fowler, Rouven Heck, Markus Sabadello & Kaliya Young!


* [Announcing the Artificial Intelligence and Metaverse Technology Task Force](https://trustoverip.org/blog/2022/07/20/announcing-artificial-intelligence-metaverse-technology-task-force/)

Three new TOIP Task Forces

The ToIP Technology Stack Working group is starting an - [Artificial Intelligence and the Metaverse (AIM) Task Force](https://trustoverip.org/blog/2022/07/20/announcing-artificial-intelligence-metaverse-technology-task-force/)

More details are available at [AI & Metaverse Technology Task Force – Home – Confluence (trustoverip.org)](https://wiki.trustoverip.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId%3D19657312) (next meeting [8/4](https://wiki.trustoverip.org/display/HOME/Calendar%2Bof%2BToIP%2BMeetings))

The ToIP Governance Stack Working group is starting a - Governance Architecture Task Force

After the original development of the [ToIP Governance Architecture Specification](https://trustoverip.org/permalink/ToIP-Governance-Architecture-Specification-V1.0-2021-12-21.pdf) and ToIP [Governance Metamodel Specification](https://trustoverip.org/permalink/ToIP-Governance-Metamodel-Specification-V1.0-2021-12-21.pdf), the plan had been to start creating layer-specific templates.  However the Governance Layer TF, led by Alex Tweeddale, Carly Huitema, and Kyle Robinson—with input from Stephen Curran— concluded that component-based templates made more sense. Thus the new Governance Architecture TF will launch based on the components in the ToIP Tech Architecture Stack

The ToIP Concepts and Terminology Working group is proposing starting a - Mental Models Task Force

- Mental models explain in detail how a set of concepts are related within a specific domain—a “mini-ontology”
- They are usually documented both in writing and in UML diagrams
- They add much greater depth and cross-conceptual understanding than glossaries alone
- The CTWG is proposing to start up a new Mental Models Task Force in September if there is sufficient interest

If you are interested Ping the ToIP Slack channel: #concepts-terminology-wg or email Judith@trustoverip.org
