---
date: 2020-12-04
title: (DIACC) The Digital Identification and Authentication Council of Canada
description: A cross-sector non-profit coalition committed to developing a Canadian framework for digital identification and authentication.
excerpt: >
    The Digital Identification and Authentication Council of Canada, known as the DIACC, is a non-profit coalition of public and private sector leaders committed to developing a Canadian framework for digital identification and authentication.

    The framework is intended to enable Canadians to completely and securely participate in the global digital economy.

    The objective is to establish a robust, secure, scalable, inclusive and privacy-enhancing digital ecosystem.

    Together we can unlock opportunities for Canadians, decrease costs for governments, consumers, and business, improve service delivery, and drive GDP growth.
categories: ["Organizations"]
tags: ["DIACC","Canada","Trust Framework","BMO","Canadapost","Cibc","Desjardins","ForgeRock","Interac","Manulife","Newbruns","Ontairo","Securekey","Td","Telus","2Keys","ATB","Affinity Credit Union","Applied Recognition","CCUA","CDIC","C1","Canada Health Infoway","Convergence","DI","Digidentity","Equifax","FIDO","Equitable Bank","Hypersecu","iComply","IDC2018","IdentityNorth","Identos","In fidem","Ltsa","Libro","LD","Mastercard","Northern Block","Notarius couleur","OARO","One span","Onfido","Outlier","Payments Canada","Prodigy","PlaceSpeak","Quartech","RBC 1","Safran","Saskatchewan","Securefact","Simeio","Smart species","TreeFort","Trulioo","Vallid","Vancity","Worldreach","Yoti","IBM","BCGov","Vivvo","UXP Systems","Boloro","Plurilock","1Kosmos","Gambit","In-Sec-M","Ingenico"]
header:
  image: /images/diacc-header.webp
  teaser: /images/diacc-teaser.webp
permalink: organizations/diacc/
last_modified_at: 2020-12-04
published: false
---

**[Website](https://diacc.ca/) • [Twitter](https://twitter.com/mydiacc) • [GitHub](https://github.com/DIACC)**

> The Digital Identification and Authentication Council of Canada, known as the DIACC, is a non-profit coalition of public and private sector leaders committed to developing a Canadian framework for digital identification and authentication.
> 
> The framework is intended to enable Canadians to completely and securely participate in the global digital economy.
> 
> The objective is to establish a robust, secure, scalable, inclusive and privacy-enhancing digital ecosystem.
> 
> Together we can unlock opportunities for Canadians, decrease costs for governments, consumers, and business, improve service delivery, and drive GDP growth.

## 2014-15

* [Digital id authentication council Canada launched](https://diacc.ca/2014/05/12/digital-id-authentication-council-canada-launched/) 05/2014
  > Created as a result of the federal government’s Task Force for the Payments System Review, the DIACC is a non-profit coalition of public and private sector leaders committed to developing a Canadian digital identification and authentication framework to enable Canada’s full and secure participation the global digital economy. DIACC members include representatives from both the federal and provincial levels of government as well as private sector leaders.
  > 
  > “This unprecedented collaboration will provide Canadians with a framework to transact with ease and security when and where they want to while maintaining their desire to keep a degree of separation between information shared with the private and public sectors ” Rizwan Khalfan, SVP, Digital Channels, TD Bank Group.
* [Building Canadas digital future](https://diacc.ca/2015/05/06/building-canadas-digital-future-2/) 05/2015
  > Toronto, May 6, 2015 – Imagine a world where Canadians can go online to access their medical records, open a bank account, sign a waiver for their children’s hockey camp, or even use their phone to vote. The introduction of a robust, secure, scalable and privacy-enhancing digital identification ecosystem will decrease costs for governments, consumers, and business while improving service delivery and driving GDP growth.
  * [Building Canada’s Digital Future](https://diacc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2015/05/DIACC-Building-Canadas-Digital-Future-May-6-2015.pdf) 
    > A new digital identity system will allow us to do things online that we have traditionally used physical ID for in person. Preferably, the new system will also be useful for in-person based processes. It must allow for federation, preferably across both the public and private sectors since, in our everyday lives, we are much more likely to use our banking credentials than our passports. It must be robust, secure, scalable and provide no additional risk to personal information and privacy. It must also be privacy enhancing. 
    >
    > This is a complex and costly undertaking—a task so complex and varied that it does not fully exist yet. Banks and other large commercial establishments can afford to build digital identification systems for their own customers. But what about using this identity to access school records? What about hockey camp? As a society we are waiting for a leader to step forward and create the digital ecosystem of the future. While we wait, institutions are building point-to-point solutions that are complex, limited and difficult for the user, and that introduce inconsistencies into an ecosystem that we know should be uniform in order to encourage adoption and security.
* [Digital id transformation pillars](https://diacc.ca/2016/05/26/digital-id-transformation-pillars/) 05/2016
  > The DIACC has adopted [10 principles](https://diacc.ca/principles/) for the Canadian digital identity ecosystem to guide our work. To secure Canada’s full and beneficial participation in the digital economy at home and abroad, DIACC members have the benefit of collaboratively developing and establishing:
  > - the Pan-Canadian Trust Framework;
  > - innovative proofs of concept real-world solutions;
  > - informative research and reports.

## 2016

* [PCTF overview](https://diacc.ca/2016/08/11/pctf-overview/) 08/2016
  > Toronto, August 11, 2016 – Today the Digital ID & Authentication Council of Canada (DIACC) releases the Pan-Canadian Trust Framework (PCTF) Overview, (English/French) a collaborative approach to developing a Pan-Canadian Trust Framework. The PCTF enableS Canada’s full and secure participation in the global digital economy through economic sector innovation and the enablement of modernized digital service delivery. The PCTF supports open government principles.
  > 
  > “Publication of the Pan-Canadian Trust Framework Overview marks an important milestone for the Canadian digital identity ecosystem. It confirms the commitment of government and private sector to work collaboratively to safeguard digital identities online through a robust framework which will standardise processes and practices across the ecosystem and facilitate the growth in  trusted digital services.” said Corinne Charette, Senior Assistant Deputy Minister, Spectrum, Information Technologies and Telecommunications Sector & Chief Digital Officer, Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada.

## 2017

* [International award](https://diacc.ca/2017/02/14/international-award/) 02/2017
  > The Digital ID and Authentication Council of Canada (DIACC), a non-profit coalition of public and private sector leaders committed to developing a Canadian digital identification and authentication framework, today announced their receipt of a new applied research grant, in collaboration with Canada’s SecureKey Technologies, to enable the development of a cloud based identity ecosystem.
  > 
  > The grant, valued at up to US$800,000, is the result of a collaboration between the DIACC and the Command, Control, and Interoperability Center for Advanced Data Analytics (CCICADA) a research center of excellence at Rutgers University funded by the Science & Technology Directorate of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
* [Innovation Paper – Digital Citizen Engagement](https://diacc.ca/2017/03/21/1375-2/) 03/2017
  > "[Digital Identity Authentication and Online Citizen Engagement](https://diacc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/DIA-Citizen-Engagement-Final.pdf)” by DIACC member [PlaceSpeak](https://www.placespeak.com/), an award-winning location-based citizen engagement platform.  
  > 
  > Drawing upon DIACC’s Proof of Concept on [Levels of Proof of Residency](https://diacc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Online-Proof-of-Residency-POC-FINAL.pdf), this innovation white paper explores how the advance of internet and information communications technology (ICTs) has had a significant impact on the online democratic process, and explains how digital identity authentication and proof of residency are employed to ensure legitimate, defensible engagement. This paper shares the experience and learnings of DIACC Member PlaceSpeak.
* [DIACC at EIC](https://diacc.ca/2017/05/09/diacc-eic/) 05/2017
  > This week Joni Brennan, our DIACC President, will be sharing “Canada’s Identity Story” with leaders from around the world at the European Identity Conference held in Munich Germany at the 11th annual European Identity Conference (EIC). The abstract of Joni’s May 10th keynote speech is below.  DIACC is proud to share Canada’s story with the world!
* [Is blockchain the answer to corporate registries in Canada?](https://diacc.ca/2017/06/06/is-blockchain-the-answer-to-corporate-registries-in-canada/) 06/2017
  > “By collaborating with IBM Canada, the Province of British Columbia and the DIACC we developed a demonstration of blockchain technology to enable a shared cross-province log of corporate registry actions that could be securely accessed by registries staff to gain visibility to the data for a single incorporated business across provincial silos,” said Joni Brennan, President of the DIACC. “This POC is unique in that it represents an opportunity to experiment and innovate in a neutral forum, and to connect the strategic contexts of business identities with that of personal identities considering the functions performed when moving from physical to digital processes.”

## 2018

* [Cambridge analytica revelation](https://diacc.ca/2018/04/26/cambridge-analytica-revelation/) 04/2018
  > The scale and publicity of this data access breach demonstrates an adage the community has clung to that has remained true across industries and platforms for years: If you are not paying to use a service, you are the product. An invisible trade-off has been happening for years and the Digital Identity industry has been working to develop better approaches and solutions that prioritize user-centred design, transparency, and tools to help people manage access to personal data.
* [The economic impact of digital identity in Canada](https://diacc.ca/2018/05/16/the-economic-impact-of-digital-identity-in-canada/) 05/2018
  * [Whitepaper](https://diacc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/Economic-Impact-of-Digital-Identity-DIACC-v2.pdf)
    > Digital identity is critical to the development of the Canadian digital economy. It is a key tool in making digital services safe, secure, efficient and accessible.Without it, many of the issues Canadians encounter will be magnified by the rapid increase in high-connected digital services.Trusted digital identity will enable the right people to access the right services efficiently and securely.This paper explores these issues and solutions needed to establish wide-scale trusted digital identity systems in Canada.
* [Connecting FIDO Alliance with Canadian solutions for digital identity](https://diacc.ca/2018/06/05/connecting-fido-alliance-with-canadian-solutions-for-digital-identity/) 06/2018
  > Hypersecu provides high quality and cost-efficient HyperFIDO™ U2F Security Keys. We’re constantly developing new products and initiatives using the FIDO U2F technology in order to make authentication as simple as possible. This includes mobile friendly FIDO security keys that can be used without additional attachments. We achieve this by taking advantage of features already natively available on most mobile devices such as Near-field Communication (NFC) or Bluetooth, which allow users to quickly connect their security key and log in from anywhere.
  > 
  > We also partner with identity and access management services such as SAASPASS to provide a one-stop multi-factor authentication solution that’s flexible and simple to use, whether you’re a small company or a large enterprise. In addition, we’ve been working to introduce FIDO U2F to universities so that students and faculty alike can protect important information such as exams, grades, student loan details, and other sensitive data.
* [Digital identity civic action placespeak civic networks white paper](https://diacc.ca/2018/07/18/digital-identity-civic-action-placespeak-civic-networks-white-paper/) 07/2018
  > DIACC member PlaceSpeak recently published a new white paper, “[Civic Networks: The Future of Community Engagement](https://blog.placespeak.com/civic-networks-the-future-of-community-engagement/)” outlining the shortcomings of global social networks and the huge potential of place-based networks rooted in verifiable digital identity. We connected with their team to find out how PlaceSpeak is using digital identity solutions to transform community action and how people connect, contribute, and relate online.
  > 
  > As opposed to social networks, civic networks are tied to place-based communities, such as streets, neighbourhoods, schools, stratas/homeowner associations and more. PlaceSpeak has been developing one such civic network that is not based on advertising or the data mining of users. It authenticates users to place, ensuring that they are real people – not bots. We believe that this is the future of online community engagement: hyperlocal and privacy-protecting, with the capacity to support respectful and authentic dialogue on wicked community issues, by design.
* [Request for Proposal: Development of the Pan-Canadian Trust Framework](https://diacc.ca/2018/07/23/rfp-pctf-community/) 07/2018
  > The framework is built in collaboration with DIACC members on the Trust Framework Expert Committee (TFEC) from both the public and private sector and with the broad federal, provincial, and territorial input of the Joint Councils Identity Management Sub-Committee. The drafts are developed with a focus on creating standards that are easy to implement and promote a secure, user-centric digital identity ecosystem of interoperable solutions and services.
* [Digital id is key to Canadas digital revolution read DIACC input to the national digital and data consultations](https://diacc.ca/2018/12/10/digital-id-is-key-to-canadas-digital-revolution-read-diacc-input-to-the-national-digital-and-data-consultations%ef%bb%bf/) 12/2018
  > 1)    Canadians haven’t been taught enough about how their data is used and the important role it plays in their lives and the economy
  > 2) Privacy and innovation go hand in hand
  > 3) While privacy is king, focus needs to evolve from “protecting” to “protecting and enabling” to improve digital access and ensure Canadians can fully participate in the modern economy  
  > 4) Canada has a strong regulatory foundation in place – but we must move quickly to support citizen access and privacy rights and to empower business competitiveness globally
  > 5) The world is interconnected, which means privacy rights extend beyond Canadian laws
  > 6) Individuals, businesses, and government all have to step up when it comes to protecting their data

## 2019

* [Exploration of remote identity proofing alternatives to knowledge based verification](https://diacc.ca/2019/02/12/exploration-of-remote-identity-proofing-alternatives-to-knowledge-based-verification/) 02/2019
  * [**Whitepaper**](https://diacc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/Exploration-of-Remote-Identity-Proofing-Alternatives-to-Knowledge-Based-Verification.pdf)
    > In order to bring the proposed innovation to Identity verification one needs to simplify the verification question to “is the entity asserting the evidence the true owner of the asserted identity”. This can be achieved by matching attributes and features from valid and genuine evidence to the entity asserting the evidence. This is done millions of times each day when a user is asked to present ID; the features on their ID are compared with those belonging to the individual, be that by a Police office, Border control officer or liquor store owner.
    > 
    > The proposed innovation will remove the risk of data breach by using secure methods that will not only ask for “what you know” but may also check “what you own”. Solutions include checking biometric or photographic information on government issued documents including passports or driving licenses and utilising challenge and response methods using Chip and PIN technology.
* [PCTF model overview discussion draft v0 02](https://diacc.ca/2019/02/12/pctf-model-overview-discussion-draft-v0-02/) 02/2019
  > The purpose of the open commentary is to ensure transparency in development and diversity of truly Pan-Canadian, and international, input. This discussion draft has been developed by the DIACC Trust Framework Expert Committee (TFEC) that operates under the DIACC controlling policies and benefits from broad and diverse public and private sector stakeholder representation. In alignment with our Principles for an Identity Ecosystem, processes to respect and enhance privacy are being prioritized through every step of the PCTF development process.
* [Canadas digital identity ecosystem](https://diacc.ca/2019/02/26/canadas-digital-identity-ecosystem/) 02/2019
  > DIACC’s latest publication, [Canada’s Digital Identity Ecosystem](https://diacc.ca/2019/02/26/canadas-digital-identity-ecosystem/), stresses the value in building such a system. By unlocking digital identity capabilities from both the public and private sectors, this ecosystem benefits people, businesses and governments across the country.
* [Consumer digital identity leveraging blockchain](https://diacc.ca/2019/03/07/consumer-digital-identity-leveraging-blockchain/) 03/2019
  > DIACC forecasts that numerous multiple-party Identity Information Networks (aka Networks), may become available in the near future. What are some implementation considerations regarding such networks?
  > 
  > To further explore this, DIACC member SecureKey released a new white paper, [Consumer Digital Identity Leveraging Blockchain](https://diacc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2019/03/DIACC_Phase2_SK-2019-FINAL.pdf).
  > > The learnings of this applied research project provide a  valuable  opportunity  to  inform  the  Pan-Canadian  Trust  Framework  by  exploring  an implementation of a Third-Party Identity Information Network. 
  > > 
  > > Given the scope of the deliverables in Phase Two, a number of key learnings were identified during the implementation and development activities. The high-level focus of the lessons learned centered around the need for Networks to perform with speed, convenience, and aligned with the expectations of today’s digital users–clearly users will have low tolerance for slow transaction response times and making sure the user  has clear understanding of what is happening during these transaction – the user experience must support allowing the user to collect, and present, verified Digital Assets in a trusted and reliable manner.
* [Notice consent overview conformance discussion drafts](https://diacc.ca/2019/04/03/notice-consent-overview-conformance-discussion-drafts/) 04/2019
  > The Notice and Consent Component defines a set of processes used to formulate a statement about the collection, use and disclosure of personal information, and to obtain a consent decision on that statement from a person authorized to do so. The Notice and Consent processes ensure that notice statements are accurately formulated according to defined requirements, that the person making the consent decision has the authority to do so, and that the management of that consent decision is possible.
* [Letters from the president a collaborative road less travelled delivering a PCTF that works for Canada and around the world](https://diacc.ca/2019/05/15/letters-from-the-president-a-collaborative-road-less-travelled-delivering-a-pctf-that-works-for-canada-and-around-the-world/) 05/2019
  > To support the development of the PCTF in alignment with this vision, the Board of Directors developed and affirmed PCTF Development and Operationalization principles including:
  > 1. PCTF must provide value to the public and private sectors by defining a minimum set of requirements which encompasses standards and practices. The PCTF will promote interoperability that unlocks public and private sector identity capabilities and supports Canada’s economic growth.
  > 2. PCTF will define the baseline set of requirements for public and private sector, and there may be requirements that are defined as optional.
  > 3. The PCTF represents a willing community coalition, and is authoritative to those who adopt it.
  > 4. PCTF may be profiled by communities of interest to tighten the PCTF baseline for a specified use case.
  > 5. PCTF is developed, maintained and published by DIACC, based on the broad input of public and private sectors, international experts, liaisons and the general public.
* [PCTF draft recommendation v1 0](https://diacc.ca/2019/06/03/pctf-draft-recommendation-v1-0/) 06/2019
  > The PCTF is intended to standardize trusted digital representations (i.e., identities, attributes, relationships) of people and other types of entities in Canada. This document provides the high-level model of the PCTF and a recap of PCTF contextual information, goals, and objectives. This document also outlines functional areas that are the primary focus of the PCTF. The outline provides a sense of the digital representations with which the PCTF is concerned and the various processes involved in creating, managing, and using these digital objects. Individual PCTF components and profiles will provide detailed descriptions of the processes highlighted in this document.
* [Canadas digital charter trust in the age of technology](https://diacc.ca/2019/05/31/canadas-digital-charter-trust-in-the-age-of-technology/) 05/2019
  * [Bill summary: Digital Charter Implementation Act, 2020](https://www.ic.gc.ca/eic/site/062.nsf/eng/00120.html)
  * [Fact Sheet: Digital Charter Implementation Act, 2020](https://www.ic.gc.ca/eic/site/062.nsf/eng/00119.html)
  * [Canada's Digital Charter: A Visual Summary (PDF, 1.002 KB)](https://www.ic.gc.ca/eic/site/062.nsf/vwapj/1020_04_19-Website_Placemat_v09.pdf/$file/1020_04_19-Website_Placemat_v09.pdf)
  > The [Digital Charter](https://www.ic.gc.ca/eic/site/062.nsf/eng/h_00108.html) is intended to protect Canadians’ privacy and establish requirements and regulations for how organizations can use personal data. Rooted in a foundation of trust, the Digital Charter will set a baseline for how companies, citizens and governments interact and transact online.\
  > [...]\
  > In November 2020, the government proposed the Digital Charter Implementation Act, 2020, which would modernize the framework for the protection of personal information in the private sector. This legislation takes a number of important steps to ensure that Canadians will be protected by a modern and responsive law and that innovative businesses will benefit from clear rules, even as technology continues to evolve, including:
  > 
  > - increasing control and transparency when Canadians' personal information is handled by companies;
  > - giving Canadians the freedom to move their information from one organization to another in a secure manner;
  > - ensuring that when consent is withdrawn or information is no longer necessary, Canadians can demand that their information be destroyed; and
  > - providing for the strongest fines among G7 privacy laws—with fines of up to 5% of revenue or $25 million, whichever is greater, for the most serious offences.
* [A year of delivery 2019 annual general meeting](https://diacc.ca/2019/06/19/a-year-of-delivery-2019-annual-general-meeting/) 06/2019
  > **Trust Framework Expert Committee (TFEC)**\
  > The TFEC works collaboratively to develop components of the Pan-Canadian Trust Framework (PCTF). This past year, the committee released its [PCTF Model Draft Recommendation V1.0](https://diacc.ca/2019/06/03/pctf-draft-recommendation-v1-0/), as well as Discussion Drafts of Notice and Consent and Verified Login, with more on the way including Privacy, Verified Person, and Verified Organization.\
  > [...]\
  > **Innovation Expert Committee (IEC)**\
  > Establishment of a committee framework, as well as the creation of a DIACC Member Directory and Innovation Guide, were among the recent accomplishments of the committee.
  > [...]\
  > **Outreach Expert Committee (OEC)**\
  > Ten organizations were in attendance at the OEC meeting, where discussions focused on the development of four Industry Insight Two-Pagers. The papers are to serve as content pieces to close the knowledge gap on the relevance of digital ID in each industry. The Committee discussed their thoughts and made significant progress on the three papers including the importance of digital ID in Financial Services, Healthcare and Government Services, with Commerce undertaken at a follow-up meeting.
* [Diacc industry insights digital id in financial services](https://diacc.ca/2019/07/18/diacc-industry-insights-digital-id-in-financial-services/) 07/2019
  > The focus of this first paper is the financial services industry. Find out what you need to know about the need for improving security, simplifying transactions and improving efficiencies, and how this will impact key industry stakeholders.
  > 
  > Read the full paper: [DIACC Industry Insights: Digital ID in Financial Services](https://diacc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/Industry-Insights-Digital-ID-in-Financial-Services-July-2019.pdf)
* [Letters from the president the importance of transparency in diaccs pan canadian trust framework PCTF development](https://diacc.ca/2019/07/23/letters-from-the-president-the-importance-of-transparency-in-diaccs-pan-canadian-trust-framework-pctf-development/) 07/2019
* [Diacc industry insights digital id in health care](https://diacc.ca/2019/08/15/diacc-industry-insights-digital-id-in-health-care/) 08/2019
  > The focus of this paper is the health care industry. Find out what you need to know about the applications of digital ID in the industry, and how it impacts key stakeholders, including patients, practitioners and policymakers. 
  > 
  > Read the full paper: [DIACC Industry Insights: Digital ID in Health Care](https://diacc.ca/2019/08/15/diacc-industry-insights-digital-id-in-health-care/)
* [Diacc industry insights digital id in commerce](https://diacc.ca/2019/09/19/diacc-industry-insights-digital-id-in-commerce/) 09/2019
  > The focus of this paper is the commerce sector. Find out what you need to know about the applications of digital ID in the industry, and how it impacts key stakeholders, including consumers, businesses and e-commerce.
  > 
  > Read the full paper: [DIACC Industry Insights: Digital ID in Commerce](https://diacc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/Industry-Insights-Digital-ID-in-Commerce_September-2019.pdf)
* [Diacc industry insights digital id in civic engagement](https://diacc.ca/2019/10/17/diacc-industry-insights-digital-id-in-civic-engagement/) 10/2019
  > The focus of this paper is on civic engagement. Find out what you need to know about the applications of digital ID in the industry, and how it impacts key stakeholders, including citizens and policymakers.
  > 
  > Read the full paper: [DIACC Industry Insights: Digital ID in Civic Engagement](https://diacc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Industry-Insights-Digital-ID-in-Civic-Engagement_October-2019-1.pdf)
* [Diacc industry insights digital id in government services](https://diacc.ca/2019/11/21/diacc-industry-insights-digital-id-in-government-services/) 11/2019
  > The focus of this paper is on government services. Find out what you need to know about the applications of digital ID in the industry, and how it impacts key stakeholders, including citizens, businesses and policymakers.
  > 
  > Read the full paper: [DIACC Industry Insights: Digital ID in Government Services](https://diacc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2019/11/Industry-Insights-Digital-ID-in-Government-Services_Nov-2019.pdf)
* [Smart cities need user centric digital id to be built on foundational principles](https://diacc.ca/2019/11/22/smart-cities-need-user-centric-digital-id-to-be-built-on-foundational-principles/) 11/2019
  > DIACC firmly believes in user-centred digital ID – designed to prioritize and require user choice, control and consent regarding access to collect and manage data. As Sidewalk Labs looks to move forward in their work in Waterfront Toronto, we reiterate the importance of these principles as foundational to the empowerment of a digital society that works for all Canadians. 

## 2020

* [**Our journey DIACC years in review 2015-2019**](https://diacc.ca/2020/01/15/our-journey-diacc-years-in-review/) 01/2020
  - [Page-by-page printable version of the infographic](https://diacc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/DIACC-Years-in-Review_Infographic_Slides-VF.pdf)
  - [Tabloid version of the infographic](https://diacc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/DIACC-Years-in-Review_Infographic_Full-vertical.pdf)
    > DIACC has gone through tremendous growth since its inception in 2012, thanks to the tireless work and dedication of members. Download an engaging infographic for a snapshot of DIACC’s history and milestones from 2015 – 2019, and a look at the evolution in the identity landscape in Canada and around the world.
* [Creation of the first national digital identity laboratory](https://diacc.ca/2020/03/19/creation-of-the-first-national-digital-identity-laboratory/) 03/2020
  > TORONTO, GATINEAU March 19, 2020 – The Digital ID and Authentication Council of Canada (DIACC) is pleased to announce a collaborative partnership with Canada’s cybersecurity cluster, In-Sec-M, to create the first national digital identity lab.
  > 
  > Leveraging the strengths of their respective members, the two organizations have begun to identify and enumerate the requirements for the future laboratory, in addition to building a community of interest that will derive value from such a venture.
  > 
  > As an independent not-for-profit entity focused on providing value to the public and private sectors, the Digital Identity Laboratory is being established in accordance with principles of openness, transparency and good governance to maintain the highest level of market neutrality.
* [In a work from home world a reliable digital id is ever more important](https://diacc.ca/2020/03/23/in-a-work-from-home-world-a-reliable-digital-id-is-ever-more-important/) 03/2020

* [Canadians are ready to embrace digital identity 2](https://diacc.ca/2019/10/15/canadians-are-ready-to-embrace-digital-identity-2/) 10/2019

* [Why Canada needs a digital id framework](https://diacc.ca/2020/04/27/why-canada-needs-a-digital-id-framework/) 04/2020

* [Understanding face biometrics for identity verification and authentication](https://diacc.ca/2020/04/27/understanding-face-biometrics-for-identity-verification-and-authentication/) 04/2020

* [Progressing the pan canadian trust framework pctf](https://diacc.ca/2020/09/12/progressing-the-pan-canadian-trust-framework-pctf/) 09/2020

* [Making sense of identity networks](https://diacc.ca/2020/05/13/making-sense-of-identity-networks/) 05/2020

* [A summary making sense of identity networks](https://diacc.ca/2020/05/13/a-summary-making-sense-of-identity-networks/) 05/2020

* [Self assessment verified me by securekey technologies inc](https://diacc.ca/2020/05/13/self-assessment-verified-me-by-securekey-technologies-inc/) 05/2020

* [Self assessment citizenone by vivvo](https://diacc.ca/2020/05/13/self-assessment-citizenone-by-vivvo/) 05/2020

* [Reliance on the internet and the battle against covid 19 highlight the need for multi channel authentication](https://diacc.ca/2020/05/14/reliance-on-the-internet-and-the-battle-against-covid-19-highlight-the-need-for-multi-channel-authentication/) 05/2020

* [Oaro fighting covid 19 with automated temperature screening](https://diacc.ca/2020/05/14/oaro-fighting-covid-19-with-automated-temperature-screening/) 05/2020

* [Diacc launches new special interest group](https://diacc.ca/2020/05/14/diacc-launches-new-special-interest-group/) 05/2020

* [Directory products assess identification documents verify identity](https://diacc.ca/2020/05/21/directory-products-assess-identification-documents-verify-identity/) 05/2020

* [Credentials overview conformance draft recommendations](https://diacc.ca/2020/06/01/credentials-overview-conformance-draft-recommendations/) 06/2020

* [Annual achievements and milestones](https://diacc.ca/2020/06/15/annual-achievements-and-milestones/) 06/2020

* [2020 DIACC board of directors](https://diacc.ca/2020/06/23/2020-diacc-board-of-directors/) 06/2020

* [Adapting to distance how digital solutions are creating a path forward for traditional industries](https://diacc.ca/2020/07/14/adapting-to-distance-how-digital-solutions-are-creating-a-path-forward-for-traditional-industries/) 07/2020

* [New partnership to advance digital identity in quebec](https://diacc.ca/2020/07/16/new-partnership-to-advance-digital-identity-in-quebec/) 07/2020

* [Newly launched digital id framework to begin testing in Canada](https://diacc.ca/2020/09/15/newly-launched-digital-id-framework-to-begin-testing-in-canada/) 09/2020

* [Next evolution of levels of assurance](https://diacc.ca/2020/10/21/next-evolution-of-levels-of-assurance/) 10/2020

* [The DIACC five year strategic plan](https://diacc.ca/2020/10/27/the-diacc-five-year-strategic-plan/) 10/2020


## Member Spotlights

* [Spotlight on Digidentity](https://diacc.ca/2016/10/14/spotlight-on-digidentity/) 10/2016
  > Digidentity is an Identity Provider, focussing on end-to-end high assurance identity services. From validation, verification and authentication up to authorization and digital signing on a business level. Our services are being used by local and central governments (The Netherlands and the United Kingdom). Other clients vary from SMEs to multinational enterprises in various industries. We see a high demand in financial services.
* [Spotlight on Securefact](https://diacc.ca/2016/12/14/spotlight-on-securefact/) 12/2016
  > Securefact, a KYC regulatory technology (RegTech) firm with deep expertise in digital identity software solutions and AML/TF compliance advisory is keen to work closely with DIACC to support the development of a national trusted digital identity system.
* [Spotlight on Applied recognition](https://diacc.ca/2016/12/15/spotlight-on-applied-recognition/) 12/2016
  > Applied Recognition’s vision is to create the most accurate and most easily deployed biometric face recognition technology to help protect people, their credentials and their transactions.
  > 
  > Our mission is to partner with organizations which understand the importance of embedding face recognition into their processes to improve both security and users’ experience while respecting privacy.
* [Spotlight on Safran identity security](https://diacc.ca/2017/02/16/spotlight-on-safran-identity-security/) 02/2017
  > Safran Identity & Security (formerly known as Morpho) is a global leader in security and identity solutions, deploying solutions in more than 100 countries.
  > 
  > We employ more than 8,700 people in 57 countries and generated revenues of nearly €1.9 billion in 2015. Backed by more than 40 years of experience in biometrics, the company develops innovative technologies for a wide range of markets and applications for people, governments and business.
* [Spotlight on Vivvo](https://diacc.ca/2017/07/07/spotlight-on-vivvo/) 07/2017
  > Vivvo has been delivering our flagship service, CitizenOne, to the Government of Saskatchewan since September of 2016.\
  > Vivvo sees the citizen’s identity as the cornerstone of a consent-based, privacy by design delivery model. We also believe the positive digital experience citizens encounter in the private sector should be available when interacting with government.\
  > Vivvo’s CitizenOne eGov platform is a powerful solution that enables and enhances citizens access to digital services from a consolidated government marketplace. It provides access to all digital services with a single identity in a privacy first, consent based model.
* [Spotlight on UXP systems](https://diacc.ca/2017/11/16/spotlight-on-uxp-systems/) 11/2017
  > UXP Systems’ User Lifecycle Management platform provides an evolutionary approach traditional integrated asset management (IAM) systems to enable contextual relationships between users and their digital devices and services. User Lifecycle Management (ULM) digitally models – on a fine grain basis – real-world human interconnections for virtually any digital offering and enables the workflows and journeys for users to create these relationships. Our vision is to enable the emerging world of omni-digital engagement, connected life/IOT, and digital transformation via User Lifecycle Management, powering any user to securely onboard, access, delegate, revoke, and manage any digital service and share various elements of those services with users around them.
* [Spotlight on Boloro](https://diacc.ca/2017/12/19/spotlight-on-boloro/) 12/2017
  > Boloro is committed to identity verification through the use of the mobile phone number and memorized PIN as unique identifiers, as well as the separation of authentication from the transaction, and Boloro wants to use this commitment as a foundation to promoting financial inclusion, transparency and fraud prevention.
  > 
  > In addition to identity verification and transaction validation, Boloro’s patented authentication and mobile payments technology includes a complete settlement and reconciliation report that can be used to develop a credit history for individuals that can become the basis for establishing traditional banking and credit relationships.
* [Spotlight on Plurilock](https://diacc.ca/2018/01/04/spotlight-on-plurilock/) 01/2018
  > Plurilock’s mission is to provide the most reliable, continuous proof-of-presence and identity assurance cybersecurity solution to protect government agencies and corporations from insider threats. Using behavioral analysis, machine learning and a frictionless user experience, Plurilock’s system detects and stops suspicious behavior in real time to secure the organization and solve compliance challenges without interfering with user productivity.
* [Spotlight on Hypersecu](https://diacc.ca/2018/03/12/spotlight-on-hypersecu/) 03/2018
  > Hypersecu Information Systems is a Canadian Controlled Private Corporation, founded in 2009. Our mission and vision are to provide top-of-the-line information security hardware products for digital identity and authentication. Our products are built on international standards-based protocols, are cost effective, and are open to competitive market forces in order to meet a broad range of users’ needs. At Hypersecu, we strive to ensure trust in the digital world.
* [Spotlight on ATB financial](https://diacc.ca/2018/03/14/spotlight-on-atb-financial/) 03/2018
  > We’d be remiss not to mention that we’re one of Canada’s top 50 employers with a dedicated vision to reimagine banking, make it work for people. We’re fervent in our approach to transform banking and deliver new value to the customers we serve, through the 5,000+ talented team members that form our organization. Our size makes us perfect to be nimble and quick in the testing and scale of new innovation, with our relentlessly inventive nature powering us along that path. We’re also happy to share what we learn as we go, which you can find on www.atbalphabeta.com. We’re also always on the lookout for talented team members in innovation and tech, that can connect with us on our LinkedIn talent community at www.bit.ly/ATBTransforms .
* [Spotlight on Biometric signature id](https://diacc.ca/2018/04/25/spotlight-on-biometric-signature-id/) 04/2018
  > Our mission is to be the leading out-of-the-box multi-factor authentication solution that provides users with proven results where it counts and security when it matters most. Whether it’s verifying personal identity, securing banking transactions, safeguarding healthcare records, gating exams or CE, or online purchases, BSI’s mission is to help individuals and organizations control risk, reduce fraud, and maintain security compliance.
  > 
  > Using our revolutionary software-only biometric – BioSig-ID™, we can authenticate users anytime, anywhere, simply using a mouse, finger, or stylus.
* [Spotlight on Prodigy](https://diacc.ca/2018/05/22/spotlight-on-prodigy/) 05/2018
  > We are a public Canadian innovation company (TSX:PGV) with combined thriving enterprise services business (Prodigy Labs) and a venture builder (Prodigy Ventures). Highly complementary, these businesses work together to drive growth with the latest technologies.
  > 
  > Prodigy is helping to accelerate the adoption of Canada’s first digital identity network by enabling enterprise clients to rapidly test, deploy and demonstrate business value with Verified.Me.
* [Spotlight on 1Kosmos Blockid](https://diacc.ca/2018/07/26/spotlight-on-1kosmos-blockid/) 07/2018
  > This can transform the Canadian economy – and indeed the global economy – by creating a universally recognized trusted digital ID that enables businesses and governments to securely identify users, helping to eliminate fraud (for both business and consumers), eliminate “fake” accounts, and protect the privacy of users. It can speed identify verification, allowing businesses to comply with Know-Your-Customer (KYC) requirements in seconds rather than days or weeks – all without having to implement costly and redundant identity management systems or inefficient manual processes to handle the task.
  > 
  > Since forming 1Kosmos in 2016, we have added some of the leading minds in identity management on our staff and board of advisors. We have multiple financial and telecommunications customers using our solution, and analysts have called the BlockID Solution the most complete solution in digital portable identity.
* [Spotlight on Payments Canada](https://diacc.ca/2018/08/07/spotlight-on-payments-canada/) 08/2018
  > Payments Canada ensures that financial transactions in Canada are carried out safely and securely each day. Payments Canada underpins the Canadian financial system and economy by owning and operating Canada’s payment clearing and settlement infrastructure, including associated systems, bylaws, rules and standards.
* [Spotlight on Gambit](https://diacc.ca/2018/08/23/spotlight-on-gambit/) 08/2018
  > We are leaders in the Canadian biometrics space with significant experience working with the RCMP, the Policing Community and other government departments on biometric initiatives and the related standards.
* [Spotlight on iComply investor services](https://diacc.ca/2018/10/18/spotlight-on-icomply-investor-services/) 10/2018
  > iComply is really focused on using emerging technologies to provide compliance solutions, and as a young company, we have a strategic opportunity to not be bound by legacy or data silos. We are currently the world’s leading risk intelligence and compliance automation solution for cryptocurrencies, digital finance, and non-face-to-face transactions. We have a number of products on the market and available to both the market and regulatory agencies. Our primary focus as a company is to elevate the entire industry through enhanced transparency, trust, and integrity.
* [Spotlight on Quartech](https://diacc.ca/2018/10/31/spotlight-on-quartech/) 10/2018
  > Quartech Systems is an award-winning technology and business consulting firm with offices in Vancouver and Victoria, BC.  Our clients are predominantly public sector, including crown corporations within BC.  One of our most relevant recent projects includes our development team working on Verifiable Organizations Network project, a self-sovereign identity blockchain identity project to manage verifiable claims for organizations.
* [Spotlight on Ingenico](https://diacc.ca/2018/11/12/spotlight-on-ingenico/) 11/2018
  > Ingenico has been a leader in the payment industry for more than 38 years, empowering commerce across any channel whether it is online, in-store or mobile.  In Canada, Ingenico has a large majority of the Canadian terminal market share and an ever-growing share of the Canadian ecommerce market. Our secure points of interaction are used by Canadians every moment of every day and will be an ideal launch pad for digital identity usage.
  > 
  > Ingenico is also a major player in Identity in Europe. Ingenico’s Healthcare and eID vertical is already on its fourth generation of hardware supporting pharmacy, healthcare and secured public sector work stations in France and Germany. Our identity solutions, experience and expertise can help fast track DIACC’s mandate.
* [Spotlight on Entersekt](https://diacc.ca/2019/01/24/spotlight-on-entersekt/) 01/2019
  > Entersekt’s vision is of a world where everyone can interact and transact digitally without fear. In 2008, Entersekt launched the very first out-of-band, mobile push-based transaction authentication product in the world. Since then we’ve continued to innovate, and today millions of people across the world use our products daily to secure their online banking, mobile banking, online shopping, and corporate networks.
* [Spotlight on Yoti](https://diacc.ca/2019/05/15/spotlight-on-yoti/) 05/2019
  > Our mission is to be the world’s trusted identity platform. We want to be the solution to fears around transparency, trust, privacy and control.
  > 
  > To achieve this, we need to build trust, which is not an easy task today for any company. So we’re building Yoti around principles which are regulated by an [independent Guardian Council](https://www.yoti.com/about/council/) – the antithesis of big tech and data companies. By staying on track to our principles and working in close collaboration with all of our stakeholders including businesses and governments, we can achieve our goal of putting people in control of their data and fixing the broken identity system.

* [Spotlight on Manulife](https://diacc.ca/2019/06/10/spotlight-on-manulife/) 06/2019

* [Spotlight on League data](https://diacc.ca/2019/06/18/spotlight-on-league-data/) 06/2019

* [Spotlight on Onfido](https://diacc.ca/2019/07/04/spotlight-on-onfido/) 07/2019

* [Spotlight on 100101075 tech inc](https://diacc.ca/2019/07/18/spotlight-on-100101075-tech-inc/) 07/2019

* [Spotlight on Canada deposit insurance corporation cdic](https://diacc.ca/2019/07/23/spotlight-on-canada-deposit-insurance-corporation-cdic/) 07/2019

* [Spotlight on Get group na](https://diacc.ca/2019/08/12/spotlight-on-get-group-na/) 08/2019

* [Spotlight on Libro credit union](https://diacc.ca/2019/08/31/spotlight-on-libro-credit-union/) 08/2019

* [Spotlight on Oaro](https://diacc.ca/2019/09/26/spotlight-on-oaro/) 09/2019

* [Spotlight on Pragma business and technologies inc](https://diacc.ca/2019/11/20/spotlight-on-pragma-business-and-technologies-inc/) 11/2019

* [Spotlight on Trulioo](https://diacc.ca/2019/12/17/spotlight-on-trulioo/) 12/2019

* [Spotlight on Convergence tech](https://diacc.ca/2020/01/16/spotlight-on-convergence-tech/) 01/2020

* [Spotlight on The government of saskatchewan](https://diacc.ca/2020/03/18/spotlight-on-the-government-of-saskatchewan/) 03/2020

* [Spotlight on Notarius](https://diacc.ca/2016/05/05/spotlight-on-notarius/) 05/2016

* [Spotlight on 2keys](https://diacc.ca/2016/06/02/spotlight-on-2keys/) 06/2016

* [Spotlight on Placespeak](https://diacc.ca/2016/07/27/spotlight-on-placespeak/) 07/2016

* [Spotlight on Northern block](https://diacc.ca/2020/02/19/spotlight-on-northern-block/) 02/2020

* [Spotlight on Mastercard](https://diacc.ca/2020/04/27/spotlight-on-mastercard/) 04/2020

* [Spotlight on Auth0](https://diacc.ca/2020/05/21/spotlight-on-auth0/) 05/2020

* [Spotlight on Folio technologies](https://diacc.ca/2020/06/10/spotlight-on-folio-technologies/) 06/2020

* [Spotlight on Jumio](https://diacc.ca/2020/06/25/spotlight-on-jumio/) 06/2020

* [Spotlight on Peer social](https://diacc.ca/2020/07/08/spotlight-on-peer-social/) 07/2020

* [Spotlight on Iproov](https://diacc.ca/2020/07/15/spotlight-on-iproov/) 07/2020

* [Spotlight on Mavennet](https://diacc.ca/2020/08/13/spotlight-on-mavennet/) 08/2020

* [Spotlight on Vlinder](https://diacc.ca/2020/09/03/spotlight-on-vlinder/) 09/2020

* [Spotlight on Celero](https://diacc.ca/2020/09/10/spotlight-on-celero/) 09/2020

* [Spotlight on Modohr](https://diacc.ca/2020/10/01/spotlight-on-modohr/) 10/2020

* [Spotlight on The digital technology supercluster](https://diacc.ca/2020/10/09/spotlight-on-the-digital-technology-supercluster/) 10/2020

* [Spotlight on Stash](https://diacc.ca/2020/10/14/spotlight-on-stash/) 10/2020

* [Spotlight on Arucc](https://diacc.ca/2020/11/27/spotlight-on-arucc/) 11/2020
